---
layout: post
title: Ready with Ansible
disqus: true
---
In my last post I wrote about finishing my work on  Puppet module and
moving to Ansible. You can reason out why I'm writing these sentences -
yes, I'm done (as far as a role in Ansible can be done).

This time I choosed a different approach to develop something new. In
the case of Salt and Puppet I mapped their configuration syntax to
syslog-ng's sysntax. I wanted to give as much freedom as possible to
the users. In this particular case with Ansible, I choosed a different
approach.

Ansible is a really powerful tool in the hand of DevOps, sysadmins.
It's easy to use and can easily set up your infrastructure from
scratch. It's learning curve is definitely flat, after Puppet I almost
say it's horizontal :) It uses YAML files for describing your system
(like Salt), and SSH to make changes. It doesn't need an agent to be
preinstalled just a Python interpreter and some basic Python modules so
it can also be used to set up network devices, like switches and
routers. You can use it with public key authentication, but it can also
ask for passwords.

You can do ad-hoc things with Ansible, or organize the steps into so
called playbooks. For example, you can update the cache of apt, install
a cool software then configure it. When you do this a lot of times,
maybe you want simplify the process and just say: This computer must
act as this _role_. This is the key here: organize the steps into
roles, that’s what I did, too.

I didn’t want to write a “yet another module”, which can emit syslog-ng
configuration from itself (to be precise, for Ansible and Salt no one
existed, by now). I wanted to write some high level stuff, a role,
which can be assigned to computers. IMHO most users don’t want to
configure syslog-ng itself, they just want it to run and see the logs
or would like to create a central log server possibly with TLS and
forward all their logs to there.

I have good news for them, the role is ready for use in Ansible-galaxy. Just install it, and use:

{%highlight yaml %}
- hosts: servers
  vars:
    syslog_ng_mode: server
    syslog_ng_server_sources:
      - "127.0.0.1":
          proto: udp
          port: 1524

    syslog_ng_server_dest_dir: /var/logg
    syslog_ng_server_file_macro: $YEAR.$MONTH.$DAY/$HOST.log

  remote_user: root
  roles:
    - {role: ansible-syslog-ng }
{% endhighlight %}

By using this role, you get syslog-ng  installed with the default
settings on your machines, this is called local mode. In this mode
syslog-ng doesn’t receive logs from network, just local sources, like
internal() or system(). You can change this behavior by setting
syslog_ng_mode to server, client or manual.

In server mode syslog-ng creates network sources (currently TCP, UDP
and TCP-TLS) and stores the logs under a specific directory which can
be templated. You can use predefined filters as well in each source:

{%highlight yaml %}
syslog_ng_server_sources:
 - "candrop.example.com":
     proto: udp
     port: 1234
     filters:
       - f_error
       - f_kern
 - "secure.example.com":
     proto: tls
     port: 10514
     ca_dir: /opt/syslog-ng/etc/syslog-ng/ca.d
     key_file: /opt/syslog-ng/etc/syslog-ng/key.d/client.key
     cert_file: /opt/syslog-ng/etc/syslog-ng/cert.d/client_cert.pem
 - "tcp.example.com":
     proto: udp
     port: 1234
{% endhighlight %}

The counterside of server mode is the client mode. Syslog-ng will be
configured to send its logs to one or more log servers, via UDP, TCP or
TCP-TLS and you can also use filters.

The last mode - manual - is for syslog-ng hackers. If you are not
satisfied with local, client or server modes, you can get a “vanilla”
syslog-ng.conf. More better, you can use Jinja templates in it and have
access to all variables.

There are more configuration options, these are just scratching the
surface. You can add includes, set where to place logs, force Ansible
to check the generated syntax before reloading syslog-ng, and so on.
You can find the code and documentation here [1].

I developed and tested this module on an Ubuntu Trusty, but Travis runs
all tests on Precise. So the supported platforms currently are Ubuntu
or Debian systems. The 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5 syslog-ng versions are
supported, (but unfortunately) their configuration files are not the
same.

Finally I hope that these four modes covers the most use cases and will
be used by a lot of Ansible users. 

[[1]](https://github.com/ihrwein/ansible-syslog-ng)
