---
layout: post
title: Collecting use cases
disqus: true
---
In my first post I wrote about myself and my attendance in GSoC 2014.
I've already taken a look at Salt and wrote a proof of concept code.
You can find it [here](https://github.com/ihrwein/salt/tree/add-syslog-ng-module).

Recently I met with my mentor and got my first task: collect use cases.  The configuration management is a huge area and there is not just one software on the market: Salt, Chef, Puppet, Ansible (these are the most popular ones).

You can find below the summed up use cases that we managed to make up:

1. A lot of computers send their logs to a central log server,
1. syslog-ng listens on more than one interface and forwards the logs to a central log server,
1. you want to do some application layer filtering on log messages,
1. you may want to store application specific configuration files under a conf.d directory,
1. you might have template configuration files which can be used in more than one place (e.g. data centers),
1. grids: you got N new computers then you want them to apply the configuration of the "old" machines.

In the case of Salt, the requirements of a general modul are:

1. It should be some sort of high level stuff,
1. you may say: "I want a new destination, which is ...",
1. the users should have the opportunity to define the desired state ("I want a new destination to be created...")
1. it'd be nice to generate syslog-ng configuration from YAML files,
1. you might say: "Here is a file, take this as your config"
1. the infrastructure management is very significant. The syslog-ng configuration must be generatable (by using meta data).

I have some ideas about a Jinja templated solution, but I need more information about Salt to implement them. If you have any suggestions, feel free to share it with me!
