---
layout: post
title: Status report - started to work on Puppet
disqus: true
tags:
- gsoc2014
- Puppet
---

It's time to give my readers a follow up, how my project is going. In
my last post I wrote about the pull requests I sent to Salt. They got
merged, but the review process showed up some mistakes. My contribution
was moved to salt-contrib, where I could make some changes on them.
I've got some extra style fixes  but they broke my unit tests :( Now,
my code is ready again to merge into salt's master branch.

In the meantime I began to take care of the Puppet part. Unfortunately,
it's harder than I thought it will be. If I want to handle it, I have
to learn not just Ruby but Puppet's own DSL and also that weird spec
testing. I like challenges, so I began to get over some examples and
documentation. 

## The struggling began
The first problems appeared when I tried to run Puppet from source. The
documented installation process didn't work, I had to install some gems
manually based on the exceptions I got. There were some problems with
rake as well. After a while I was able to generate a boilerplate
module, but the generated spec test failed... I also found a bug in
puppet lint. I had some misconception about including a class and
declaring it with parameters. Maybe it was because the boilerplate spec
test gave me strange include errors. I began to push my codes into
GitHub [1] and set up Travis to do some auto tests. In my happiness I
added more and more versions to test with Travis. Then I realized,
there are incompatibilities between Puppet versions... Looking through
the documentation I also found some strange things, my favorite is here
[2]. The status of this bug report is accepted, because there is no
activity on it.

## When I saw the light
It turned out, that there is some nasty problem with my development
environment. I was curious and tested my code on a Trusty with Puppet
installed by apt. My always failing spec unittests got the power and
succeeded. In a moment I cloned my Puppet test VM and set up as my new
development environment on it. I don't have a fancy Atom editor on it,
but Vim is my best friend without a GUI (maybe with a GUI, too). I
added some extra entries to the hosts file (and set chattr +i on it, to
not be overridden at reboot), installed git and now it's ready to rock
:)

Maybe I was a little critical with Puppet. Its learning curve is
definitely steeper than Salt's and IMHO the documentation is also less
brilliant. But the declarative language seems to be a good idea, just
that old school pull mechanism wouldn't be.

Here are some examples I think it will work when I'm finished:

{% highlight puppet %}
syslog_ng::source {"s_gsoc":
  type => file,
  options => {
    file => /var/log/apache.log,
    follow_freq => 1,
    flags => [no_parse, validate_utf8]
  }
}

syslog_ng::destination {"d_gsoc":
  type => file,
  options => {
    file => /var/log/apache_out.log
  }
}

syslog_ng::log {"some name":
  sources => s_gsoc,
  destinations => d_gsoc
}
{% endhighlight %}

Tomorrow I will write a letter to the Puppet developers how I would
like to implement my ideas. I hope they will help me :)

[[1]](https://github.com/ihrwein/puppet-syslog_ng)

[[2]](https://projects.puppetlabs.com/issues/5220)
