---
layout: post
title: Work on Salt is in final state
disqus: true
---
I was out for a while, it's exam time in my university. Next to the
studying I worked on my GSoC task but didn't write blog about it. Now,
I have done with my exams so I can make up leeway.


I worked on a Salt state module and IMHO it's  development is reaching
its final state. I'm done with config generation from YAML, you can
find a howto [here](https://github.com/ihrwein/salt/wiki/Syslog-ng-state-HOWTO).

There are a lot of examples I hope you will try them. I don't want to
repeat myself, under the above link you can find information how to use
the new syslog-ng state modul.

At first it was difficult to me to generate perfect syntax
configurations. There are a lot of statement types (log, channel,
source, options, etc.), some of them have names, some not. In a
statement you can use already defined statements (I call them
references) like source(s_local) or you can define them inline. The
statements have options and the options have parameters. Some options
have a type (like file("input.txt"), its type is file), but in some
places you can omit them. For example you can write this:

Now you can see, you can't represent the file type as a dictionary. It
should be a list, because its first item is just a string, there is no
key for it. You must use different separator characters in different
levels of the configuration tree. You can omit the colons in options,
but in their parameters you can't. These are not very difficult
problems but they are annoying until you get used to them. I built a
recursive algorithm which tracks the level in the configuration and
uses the appropriate separators, opening and enclosing characters.  You
can find the source code [here](https://github.com/ihrwein/salt/blob/add-syslog-ng-module/salt/states/syslog_ng.py).

Syslog-ng uses words yes and no in some places, so you have to use them
in YAML also. PyYAML will load these variables as booleans if you don't
enclose them in quotation marks [1].

If you have any questions or thoughts please leave a comment!

[[1] ](http://salt.readthedocs.org/en/latest/topics/troubleshooting/yaml_idiosyncrasies.html#true-false-yes-no-on-off)

